So much for the transmission of texts and their combination. The Tower = history_described_played of Babel was dismantled brick by brick, quantified, and rebuilt. A question-and-answer game leads to the upper stories, the chambers, the details of its appointments. This suffices for the historian
who practices history as a science. However, the luminar offers more. Not only was an encyclopedia of inconceivable dimensions
created in the catacombs, it was also activated. History is not only described, it is also played. Thus, it is summoned back into time; it appears in images and persons. Both scholars and artists must have been at work, even clairvoyants who peered into crystal balls. At midnight, when I call up
one of the great scenes, I am directly participating in what is virtually a conjuration. Certainly there are objections. My dear dad generally refuses to employ this part of the luminar; it
offends his sense of historical precision. But then how precise is historiography - say, Plutarch's? The great speeches of kings and generals before a battle? Was he present? He must have put the
words into his heroes' mouths. And why not? Besides, I often hear better things from the luminar.
And the sources of the era that introduced speaking machines are terribly meager.
- Eumeswil
Both the texts and the spectacles in the luminar are beneficial to my study of = luminar_ spectacles anarchy, which is my secret focus. I summon the leading and marginal figures of theoretical and applied anarchism from The Banquet of the Seven Sages to the dinamiteros and bomb-throwers of
Paris and Saint Petersburg. Let me make a general comment on the luminar. Whenever people appear in the spectacle, remarks and replies are put into their mouths, often brilliantly. However, the catacombs must have an elite that tries to reach further. The people are supposed to answer on their own! This would not
be altogether impossible, even technologically; it would constitute a supreme level of automatism.
- Eumeswil
The luminar is a time machine that simultaneously abolishes time by
- luminar_time_machine leading out of it. This is not true always or for everyone; but in some passages, one hears only the
melody and forgets the instrument.
